1. Identify the DNS solution implemented in this cluster.
Run the command: kubectl get pods -n kube-system and look for the DNS pods.

2. How many pods of the DNS server are deployed?
Run the command: kubectl get deploy -n kube-system and look for Desired count of coredns.

3. What is the name of the service created for accessing CoreDNS?
What is the IP of the CoreDNS server that should be configured on PODs to resolve services?

Run the command: kubectl get service -n kube-system

4. Where is the configuration file located for configuring the CoreDNS service?
Inspect the Args field of the coredns deployment and check the file used.
Run the command: kubectl -n kube-system describe deployments.apps coredns | grep -A2 Args | grep Corefile

5. How is the Corefile passed into the CoreDNS POD?
Use the kubectl get configmap command for kube-system namespace and inspect the correct ConfigMap.
Run the command: kubectl get cm -n kube-system and look at the coredns ConfigMap. It's passed through the ConfigMap volume in the deployment.


6. What is the name of the ConfigMap object created for Corefile?
Run the command: kubectl get configmap -n kube-system and identify the name.

7. What is the root domain/zone configured for this kubernetes cluster?
Run the command: kubectl describe configmap coredns -n kube-system and look for the entry after kubernetes.



8. What name can be used to access the hr web server from the test Application?
You can execute a curl command on the test pod to test. Alternatively, the test Application also has a UI. Access it using the tab at the top of your terminal named test-app.
Use the command kubectl get svc after viewing the available services, write the correct service name and port


9. e just deployed a web server - webapp - that accesses a database mysql - server. However the web server is failing to connect to the database server. Troubleshoot and fix the issue.


They could be in different namespaces. First locate the applications. The web server interface can be seen by clicking the tab Web Server at the top of your terminal.

CheckCompleteIncomplete
Web Server: webapp

Uses the right DB_Host name

solution
Set the DB_Host environment variable to use mysql.payroll.

Run the command: kubectl edit deploy webapp and correct the DB_Host value.


10. From the hr pod nslookup the mysql service and redirect the output to a file /root/CKA/nslookup.out
Run the command: kubectl exec -it hr -- nslookup mysql.payroll > /root/CKA/nslookup.out
